can't you just not you know we didn't yeah need the
publicity we weren't looking to have our names
before and frank said no that's not the way it's
done he said that if you people know that you've
done something that encourages other people to do
it yeah that's right yeah he was really our master
at that time and i think just the concept too is um
Now let me ask
you,
had either of you much interest in art before this?
Yes. Okay.
Well, I've always been an artist, but I've always
had art in my home. Most every home I've had has been
photographed by somebody who don't. Okay, so you
did have a strong sense. But I kind of asked that
question to Lindsey. I said, well, do you ever
really care about books? He said, no, I really
don't care about books. He said, I like A&M. You
know, and that's a good, fair answer. I was
wondering about that. I'd say we did it for both.
For both reasons, yeah. And I just really wondered
if you had asked her. Well, she does. Yeah. Thanks.
Well, the reason I asked you that, in fact, is that I
really believe one of those letters in particular
that Wardlaw and Roney wrote to you, or addressed
them to you, is that you told them both of them. I
kind of thought, well, you must have, there must be
something there. I didn't mean to say that she has a
definite eye. Has her eye. Mm-hmm. Well, that
series has certainly been, I think, one of the
brighter things in the whole press experience.
And what's nice about it, you know, you can go on and
on. It really adds. You can just multiply it and
produce. That's really a great thing. Among the
series, Frank
Barbaugh said that. And Michael Perry said that.
That was not as popular as ever. Yeah, yeah. He said
that Frank had blamed himself over and over for
deciding to do that for him. Because we kicked in
another $25,000 to keep it going. Is that right?
Yeah. You know, it's publishing a funny business.
You can't call them all. It's kind of like our
business. You can't call them all, can you? But
that's how sincere he was. There's two things we
could see. He was enthusiastic, and he was smart, I
think. Any of you? I think I was also impressed that
he had such a background of stuff that he wanted to
do here that they didn't allow him to do. Of course,
I know I knew records some places that when they
talked him into coming to A&M, they did everything
they promised. He didn't have to have a committee
tell him what to do. He was very concerned about
that always, and I know in his appropriations,
That $200,000 revolving fund was so important to
him. And it would be some sort of review. He felt
part of the faculty there. He felt at home. He did.
He sure did. Yeah, he said, this is a happy school.
He really over and over again, this is a happy
place. And that was really, really good. It really
was. How about Jack Williams now? When had you
first encountered Jack Williams? We were at A&M
when he came in there and announced that he was
going to be president. So we saw him the first time
that he was a mouse.
I remember that we were in a room and it was awkward.
I remember that Mary Williams, his daughter, she
was sitting at the headrest. She was really young.
We were sitting right behind her. She and her
mother. That's when we got pregnant. I assume, if I
can remember, that I was involved with
some of the program. He'd be able to hang with
them when we had the meetings up there. He liked
them. Well, Joe has been always a reasonable
person, you know. He's not... He can see the good
and the bad side of A&M, you know, but some of them
are just blind. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Our policy was that
we didn't try to Yeah, that's
a hard line.
Good. You
can't change. Yeah. And you have to help him. And
for him, that's the theory that we hold. And that's
a good theory. I mean, in the business, you see a lot
of people who try to run the ship, and you really
shouldn't. Jack, you know, when I started at A&M
Brook, Rudder was president of Brook. And when
Jack came in, I think he was probably a good I think
Rudder did so much to change the foundation, and
then Jack Williams took advantage of it and made a
major thrust. In the development of the series,
did either or both of you have any real personal
input in selecting titles or anything like that?
That was one rule. We made a rule that we would have
nothing to do with any except finals. I say that we
didn't say that we wouldn't appreciate knowing
the Artists and so forth. I mean, that didn't come
up, but that's the most, the pleasure we got out of
it, unbeknownst to time. If we were glued in things
with the authors and the artists, then we enjoyed
it. I think that kind of made the whole series a
little more special for the artists and for
the universe. Very well. Is there a particular
title or book that you are most happy
with? And I won't say that you said that, but what
I'm going to do in the text is go through it. I'm
going to try to pull out a few titles that I really
want to... Well, you pick out your two, and I'll
pick out mine. Well, of course, if Ashley would
have liked the Shiva's, who wouldn't like the
Shiva's? Oh, yeah, sure. But after that, I think,
as far as successful, I'd take us to the Rio
Grande. It's a very good school. It's sold well. I
think the books that have different artists
outside of the book, because you have different
artists in the interpretation of that area, you
know, like the Hill Country. That's nice. Frank
Rayville
is quite unusual, but
we went to the archives at UT and they had so much of
his work put out there before Frank and I, and you
went with us out there before they did that book. We
did, as far as the input on anything, we did go look
at that. Like I said, Frank was the publisher, you
do. The
director,
he knew. Sure. Yeah. He knew. He knew. He knew. He
knew. He knew. He knew. He knew. He knew. He knew. He
knew. He knew. He knew. He knew. He knew. He knew.
And the second
would be the . Oh, yeah, that is a pretty thing. That
is nice. That'd be nice. Yeah. So we agree on
something. OK. And I say, I'm not going to try to put
you on the . There's a Phoenix painting over there.
And you may have been involved in it. You talked
about a gathering of the herd. What is that? Tell me
that. I'm going to show you the thing. That was one
of the nicest deals, and we did it after the book. It
was the Frank Ray Longhorn book. Now, we knew a
fellow here that was a Longhorn person, and we
decided to have a... He offered...
he for some reason we probably talked to him about
the book and because he there's what you call a
texas longhorn association yeah yeah
organization yeah he was involved in that and
we decided to have a party out of this place and We
were going to charge something for it, and the
money was going to be split between the press and
the Longhorns Association. I think we spent so
much on the party, we were in the elevator. Let me
find that picture. I'm going to show you the... How
many people were there? There, how many, what can
we, this was a, this was a, I'd say, 150. I hadn't
forgotten this. This is the pictures of Frank's
memorial service to the Frank family. I bet they
don't let the class. That'll make you
cry. Because I haven't seen any of it. Actually,
you
had a mixture of A&M people and ranchers, and there
were a whole bunch of People drove their trailers
there. They stayed all night. My son had a trailer
that time. He parked it there early. A trailer, a
mobile bus. A mobile bus, yeah. We stayed all
night. That was a good party. That's why Lindsay
remembered it, too, so well. The memorial,
Frank's memorial in... This was A.C. Carter.
That's his wife. This is Lady Bird. She was there.
Yeah. And who's that? That's Joe Moore, and this
is... That's Skinny James. All right. Is that...
That's the first... You've already edited during
Wednesday's Luder eclipse. That's your first.
That's Benny. Okay. Let's see. I think it is. Is it?
I was trying to look at the tag. It must be. Benny, I
was really in good shape. No, that's not
me. That's my first one. I believe that's you. I
believe that's you. Y'all are having a good time.
He really was. He could tell a story. And Harry
Lipscomb, I got to know very well.
The one mistake that you've made is not making a
video of that deal out there. Yeah. I actually
think that he might have had, did he have some
Mexican dancers? He had a guy out there cooking,
what would you call it, roast? Then he'd do some
meat about that big around. He cooked it outside.
He cooked it outside. On a spit? Was it over a spit or
just on a pit? I think Frank was very hostile when
they had Frank Wardler's day in Texas. He invited
Chester Kerr and his wife to stay with us. Oh,
that's good. He said, well, they want to stay where
we stay. Fortunately, we had two bedrooms extra.
Did he tell you first or after the fact? Well, he
told us before they got there, but I'm glad he let me
know. Yeah, that's good.
Those were good days. There was a lot going on and a
lot of excitement. We were going to drive back that
night. My son was there, so we went over and stayed
in his deal. And I got up real early. And where they
had that meet... It was still hot. It was cold.
Yeah. I went over and got, it was, we took Hugh
Larry. And then I asked him for a little, he sliced
me off, so I was pretty wrecked when I was there. I
think that was earlier than most of the time he did
that. I guess that John went back one time. If
Bamber was present, and he and Bob Walker came in
there, he had on cowboy clothes. They really
looked like drugstore cowboys. I bet they did.
They looked like the real cowboys. I bet they did.
I'll have to talk to Frank, too. Ask him about that
for me. I'll do that. I'm going to ask him about
that. He and Bob Wilkins were there. Really, they
didn't look like cowboy clothes. Yeah, they
probably had to work hard at that. I don't think
I've ever seen Frank try to dress in western
attire.
Do you remember that
either? Yes, we had lunch one day for a gala, and
someone pressed back. We had James Michigan come,
and Tom was out. Tom told James, he said, remember,
we worked for the same publisher at the same time.
Whatever time it was, they were publishing. You
know, that's something, the world of publishing
really changes. I never did that. Where is the
mystery? Where is me? And I know even, somebody,
Vanderman and I were talking, just in passing, you
know, we were talking about computers, and what is
this going to do to books? And both of us said
nothing. We got a call from Vanderman the other
day, a couple days ago, and he said, I want to go
where I can sit, I want to sit in my new book. and i
said frank we have what it says to betty and joe love
frank that's good did you know about the incident
of mission no i don't let's do that that's going to
be a good one tell me about that that's a good one
I remember him in the MSC, and I don't know if that
was a press occasion. There was some sort of a
reception for Mishma over there. Yeah. I don't
remember that. I don't remember what that
occasion was either. We got acquainted with Jim
Mishma, and he was going to move here to Austin to
start his research on Texas. And we had a guest
house out of the lake. And we offered
it to three someone else. In fact, we didn't meet
him at the time. We would have gone and he went out to
look at the house. It was too far out of town. And he
left us a little note about side-to-side,
abandoned the spot,
and lost that place, but anyhow. Then sometime
later, we flew him out to West Texas, and he was
linking to them, talking about geology and so
forth, so we actually made a couple trips around
there. We took him to Fady Williams' Bull City,
with Jack Lindham. I'm sorry they made that
picture over
there. But, uh, Lee, you just called us out of the
blue.
Oh, Michigan did? Yeah, I wanted to see that. You'd
like to go in and see that? Is that what
it is? Well, uh, yes, uh, he said that. There's
a
shortage in the book business. Books are, like,
give your high kids to have reference books. In
England, it has 2 million of those. And he said if
there's a void, they leave that, and the series, he
said he'd give 100,000 to be matched. He actually
made that all clear. We went over there, and we
didn't know exactly what he meant. And Dr. Lloyd
was in Oregon
or someplace, so he was at a meeting in Salt Lake
City, or Lloyd-Lyman, and I said, Lord, Jim,
what's the issue with October? They said, well, we
could do it after Christmas. Not Lloyd, but John
King's mystery. Yeah, a system. Well, I said,
well, you know, we have busy people getting around
Christmas. Let's go right now. We went before
Thanksgiving. Silverstone at Christmas in
Texas. Yes, yes, yes. I have to talk to Lloyd about
that, too. I'm glad you mentioned that. Yeah,
absolutely. It came about that he, just out of the
blue, said he'd put up one house, and somebody
would put up another, but it was 150. I'll find out,
yeah. And he did not want his man on it. Yeah, and
that was to be used, that's what I'm trying to think
of. And all I know is, because I remember talking to
Deloy about that, to kind of promote, it wasn't to
promote books or training or press or something a
little different than usual. You know, he doesn't
want
his name mentioned on, you know, any building.
Yeah. He wants his name first, of course.
Is that right? Is he? Where is he now? He's still
here. He's still here, okay. Anyway, we went to
Japan with Mari and Cheryl and I went to Tokyo. And
then we met Tim and we took a ship from northern
Japan and brought it to the Aleutians. This is when
he was researching Alaska. Yeah. And some Navy
plane had flown him to the islands. We were able to
get all the islands from there on back to Nome.
Okay. We're going to stop here if you're ready.